---

copyright:
  years: 2017
lastupdated: "2017-02-01"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}

<!-- Acrolinx: 2017-02-01 -->

# Security

## Cloudant DBaaS Data Protection and Security

Protecting application data for large-scale web and mobile apps can be complex,
especially with distributed and NoSQL databases.

Just as it reduces the effort of maintaining your databases,
to keep them running and growing non-stop,
{{site.data.keyword.cloudantfull}} also ensures your data stays secure and protected.

## Customer-Proven

Customers have used the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} in production environments since 2009.
Today,
{{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} is used as the data layer
for hundreds of mission-critical applications in financial services,
government,
e-commerce,
telecommunications,
healthcare,
and other security-minded industries.

## Top-Tier Physical Platforms

The {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} DBaaS is
physically hosted on Tier-1 cloud infrastructure providers such as
{{site.data.keyword.BluSoftlayer_full}} and Amazon.
Therefore,
your data is protected by the network and physical security measures that are employed by these partners,
including (but not limited to):

-   Certifications: Compliance with SSAE16,
    SOC1,
    ISAE 3402,
    ISO 27001,
    CSA,
    and other standards.
-   Access and identity management.
-   '24 x 7' physical security of data centers and network operations center monitoring.
-   Server hardening.
-   {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} gives you the flexibility to
    choose or switch among the different providers
    as your SLA and cost requirements change.

## Secure Access Control

A multitude of security features is built into
{{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}},
for you to control access to data:

-	Authentication: {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} is accessed
    by using an HTTP API.
    Where the API endpoint requires it,
    the user is authenticated for every HTTPS or HTTP request
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} receives.
-	Authorization: Grant read,
    write,
    admin permissions to specific databases.
-	"In-flight" Encryption: all access to
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} is encrypted by using HTTPS.
-	At-rest Encryption: Data that is stored on disk in
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} can be encrypted.
    >   **Note**: Data that is stored in a {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} instance is always encrypted.
-	API Access: {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} is accessed programmatically
    by using an API over secure HTTP (HTTPS).
    API keys can be generated by using
    the {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} dashboard.
-	Access Logs: All access to {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}}
    is logged for auditing purposes.
-	IP Whitelisting: {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} customers on dedicated environments
    can whitelist IP addresses to restrict access to only specified servers and users.
-	CORS: Enable CORS support for specific domains by using the
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} dashboard.

## Protection Against Data Loss or Corruption

{{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} has a number of features
to help you maintain data quality and availability:

-	Redundant and durable data storage: By default,
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} saves to disk three copies
    of every document to three different physical nodes in a cluster.
    Saving the copies ensures that a working failover copy of your data
    is always available,
    regardless of failures.
-	Data Replication and export: You can replicate your databases continuously
    between clusters in different data centers,
    or to an on-premises Cloudant Local cluster,
    or Apache CouchDB.
    Another option is to export data from
    {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} (in JSON or CSV format)
    to other locations or sources (such as your own data center)
    for added data redundancy.
-	[Backup](../guides/backup-guide.html): {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}}
    Enterprise users can request that their databases be
    backed up incrementally to a cluster of their choice,
    to protect against data corruption or deletion.
    Backup enables database restoration from a previous time,
    and document-level compare and restore by using the dashboard.
    >   **Note**: This form of backup is not available for a {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} {{site.data.keyword.cloudant_short_notm}} instance.
